README.md, before:

[![DeepSource](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/Suwayomi/Tachidesk-VaadinUI.svg/?label=active+issues&show_trend=false&token=tKg4kpGGJ0EAGMnueg1OgOpQ)](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/Suwayomi/Tachidesk-VaadinUI/)

# Tachidesk-VaadinUI

A free and open source manga reader that
uses [Tachidesk-Server](https://github.com/Suwayomi/Tachidesk-Server).

This is written in Java with the help of the Vaadin Framework.

# Is this Application usable?

Yes, but any bug reports are welcome. If you want to contribute, please do so.

Here's a list of features that are currently implemented:

- [x] Managing Extensions
- [x] Exploring Sources
- [x] Searching for Manga
- [x] Reading Manga/Chapters
- [x] Downloading Manga/Chapters
- [x] Managing Manga in a Library
- [x] Managing Categories
- [x] External Server Instance Support
- [x] Tracking via AniList
- [x] Search via AniList

# How do I get this Application

As of right now there's only a Windows build available. You can build installers for your OS via
Gradle though. Just run 'gradlew buildLinuxDeb' for Debian based Linux distributions, 'gradlew
buildLinuxRpm' for
RPM based Linux distributions or 'gradlew buildMacDmg' for MacOS.

I'll eventually get around to making builds for other OSes as well, but I'll have to explore how I
can do so via GitHub actions.

# Troubleshooting

## I started the Application, but it doesn't open in my browser

You can manually open the Application by going to http://localhost:8080 or go in the task tray and
double click the icon there.

# Support and Help

Join the [Discord Server](https://discord.com/invite/DDZdqZWaHA) and ask your questions in the
#support channel. You can Ping @diamondlp. Note that I might not respond immediately.

# How do I build this Application

## Jar

To build a jar file, just run 'gradlew buildReleaseJar'. The jar file will be located in the
build/libs folder and should be named Tachidesk-VaadinUI-x.y.z.jar.

## Windows

To build a Windows installer, just run 'gradlew buildWindowsExe' for an .exe installer or 'gradlew
buildWindowsMsi' for an .msi installer (recommended). The installer will be located in the
build/installer folder.

## Linux

To build a Linux installer, just run 'gradlew buildLinuxDeb' for a Debian based Linux distribution
or 'gradlew buildLinuxRpm' for a RPM based Linux distribution. The installer will be located in the
build/installer folder.

## MacOS

To build a MacOS installer, just run 'gradlew buildMacDmg' for a .dmg file or 'gradlew buildMacPkg'
for a .pkg file. Whichever you prefer. The installer will be located in the build/installer folder.

# Development Guidelines

## Formatting

Please use the Google Java Format to format your code. You can find an IntelliJ plugin, which will format the code for
you [here](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8527-google-java-format).

## Commit Messages

Explain what the commit does in a simple manner. Don't explain the whole algorithm you implemented, but rather what the
commit does. For example: "Add support for reading Manga" or "Fix bug where Manga Page doesn't load correctly".

## Pull Requests

Please make sure that your code compiles and runs before making a pull request. Also make sure that your code is well
formatted. If you want to make a pull request, feel free to do so. I'll review it and if it's good, I'll merge it in a
timely manner.

**Note**: If you want to make a big change, please open an issue first and discuss if the change is needed/wanted. This
way you won't have done a lot of work for nothing and I won't have to reject your pull request.

## Code

Please make sure your code is readable and follows the guidelines above. Also make sure new methods are documented with
a proper JavaDoc. For example:

```java
/**
 * This method returns the {@link Manga} title.
 *
 * @param mangaId The id of the Manga to get the tile from.
 * @return The title of the Manga. 
 */
public String getMangaTitle(String mangaId) {
    /* Code here
            
     */
}
```

# Credit

The `Tachidesk-Server` project is developed by [AriaMoradi](https://github.com/AriaMoradi) and other
contributors. Feel free to check it out [here](https://github.com/Suwayomi/Tachidesk-Server).

Commit message:

Update the 'How do I get this Application' Section

README.md, after:

[![DeepSource](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/Suwayomi/Tachidesk-VaadinUI.svg/?label=active+issues&show_trend=false&token=tKg4kpGGJ0EAGMnueg1OgOpQ)](https://app.deepsource.com/gh/Suwayomi/Tachidesk-VaadinUI/)

# Tachidesk-VaadinUI

A free and open source manga reader that
uses [Tachidesk-Server](https://github.com/Suwayomi/Tachidesk-Server).

This is written in Java with the help of the Vaadin Framework.

# Is this Application usable?

Yes, but any bug reports are welcome. If you want to contribute, please do so.

Here's a list of features that are currently implemented:

- [x] Managing Extensions
- [x] Exploring Sources
- [x] Searching for Manga
- [x] Reading Manga/Chapters
- [x] Downloading Manga/Chapters
- [x] Managing Manga in a Library
- [x] Managing Categories
- [x] External Server Instance Support
- [x] Tracking via AniList
- [x] Search via AniList

# How do I get this Application

## Releases

Just download your applicable installer from the releases tab and install it on your device.

## Flathub/Flatpak

You can also install this Application on Linux by using Flatpak with the Flathub repo, all you have to do is paste the following command into your terminal (with the flathub repo already added).
```bash
flatpak install online.hatsune_miku.tachidesk-vaadinui
```

You can then run the Application by using this
```bash
flatpak run online.hatsune_miku.tachidesk-vaadinui
```

# Troubleshooting

## I started the Application, but it doesn't open in my browser

You can manually open the Application by going to http://localhost:8080 or go in the task tray and
double click the icon there.

# Support and Help

Join the [Discord Server](https://discord.com/invite/DDZdqZWaHA) and ask your questions in the
#support channel. You can Ping @diamondlp. Note that I might not respond immediately.

# How do I build this Application

## Jar

To build a jar file, just run 'gradlew buildReleaseJar'. The jar file will be located in the
build/libs folder and should be named Tachidesk-VaadinUI-x.y.z.jar.

## Windows

To build a Windows installer, just run 'gradlew buildWindowsExe' for an .exe installer or 'gradlew
buildWindowsMsi' for an .msi installer (recommended). The installer will be located in the
build/installer folder.

## Linux

To build a Linux installer, just run 'gradlew buildLinuxDeb' for a Debian based Linux distribution
or 'gradlew buildLinuxRpm' for a RPM based Linux distribution. The installer will be located in the
build/installer folder.

## MacOS

To build a MacOS installer, just run 'gradlew buildMacDmg' for a .dmg file or 'gradlew buildMacPkg'
for a .pkg file. Whichever you prefer. The installer will be located in the build/installer folder.

# Development Guidelines

## Formatting

Please use the Google Java Format to format your code. You can find an IntelliJ plugin, which will format the code for
you [here](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/8527-google-java-format).

## Commit Messages

Explain what the commit does in a simple manner. Don't explain the whole algorithm you implemented, but rather what the
commit does. For example: "Add support for reading Manga" or "Fix bug where Manga Page doesn't load correctly".

## Pull Requests

Please make sure that your code compiles and runs before making a pull request. Also make sure that your code is well
formatted. If you want to make a pull request, feel free to do so. I'll review it and if it's good, I'll merge it in a
timely manner.

**Note**: If you want to make a big change, please open an issue first and discuss if the change is needed/wanted. This
way you won't have done a lot of work for nothing and I won't have to reject your pull request.

## Code

Please make sure your code is readable and follows the guidelines above. Also make sure new methods are documented with
a proper JavaDoc. For example:

```java
/**
 * This method returns the {@link Manga} title.
 *
 * @param mangaId The id of the Manga to get the tile from.
 * @return The title of the Manga. 
 */
public String getMangaTitle(String mangaId) {
    /* Code here
            
     */
}
```

# Credit

The `Tachidesk-Server` project is developed by [AriaMoradi](https://github.com/AriaMoradi) and other
contributors. Feel free to check it out [here](https://github.com/Suwayomi/Tachidesk-Server).
